About a year ago, my friend Jim Keller
hit me up after watching my video on
mouse utopia. He loved the video and
said it got him thinking about a core
theory of his that he wanted to run past
me. It took him like an hour to explain
fully, but he said that so much of
modern culture is a form of mate
suppression. That was a theory that
existed beforehand, but which he
articulated in very cogent terms. What
that means is that everything in our
society is imposing costs on others to
lessen their chances of reproductive
success. Normally carried out by those
in power who aren't hurt by those costs
in the same way. Jim asked me to pull my
audience for how many were aware of the
concept of mate suppression. I told him
I thought most people in these circles
already knew about the concept. and I
was horrified that only a small minority
of my audience knew what it was. I told
Jim then that I'd make a video on the
topic and the video's been stewing in my
mind ever since. So, thanks for the
idea. As time has passed, it's
consistently grown in my mind more. A
year ago, I had a sense that a lot of
our culture was mate suppression. But as
more time passed in which I perceived
the world through those new goggles, I
kept finding the rabbit hole went deeper
and deeper. This video is the end point
of a year of thinking about how
literally every single element of our
society is built off mate suppression.
Things I never even thought about, like
the current religion, manners, culture,
government, and values, only make sense
through the lens of those with power
trying to raise the costs of
reproduction for everyone else. I hope
it horrifies you as much as it did me.
[Music]
These videos take a while to make, which
means I spend a lot of time sitting at
my desk, hard at work, and I need a
comfortable place to sit during that
time. And Flexus Spot provides the
perfect chair. Flexus Spot has it all.
Take the C7M for example with an
adjustable headrest that can tilt in
almost any direction. It's perfect for
work or relaxing. The lumbar support is
designed differently from traditional
ones that can only support the lumbar
region by focusing on sacrum support. It
automatically supports both the lumbar
and the sacrum, making it more
ergonomic. Plus, it has adjustable seat
depth, armrests, and back rest. The C7M
also has a memory foam seat cushion, a
foot rest, and recliner, making it a
perfect office, work, gaming, or just
hanging around chair. I've really
enjoyed my chair and it's made my work a
lot more comfortable. I encourage anyone
who spends a lot of time at their desk
to get one. Flexuspot is having a summer
sale where if you use the code C750,
you can save $50 on a new chair. And
this doesn't even include a 10-year
warranty on any broken chairs. So, click
the link below to start using Flexaspot
today.
Part one. What the [__] is the World
Economic Forum? I've always been in
complete shock that the World Economic
Forum actually exists. I'm from Philly
whose elite were old school wasps whose
ancestors were on the Mayflower 400
years ago. And I just assumed until
after I left Pennsylvania that that's
what all of America's elite were like,
much like they were 50 years ago.
However, as I spent more time on the
coasts before settling down where I am
now in Texas, I realized a completely
new elite had taken over the western
world, nearly completely replacing the
old wasps, while claiming to be superior
to the wasps as their right to rule.
While in fact, the W were vastly more
tyrannical in every conceivable way.
I've been meaning to make a strategic
analysis of the WE or World Economic
Forum for the longest time. I ordered a
bunch of books by Klaus Schwab. I am yet
to read since I find their existence in
itself really fascinating as a sort of
example for how strange the human
condition can get. This is one of the
things I frequently think about where I
try to find different people or
civilizations where I look at them and
think, how did creation produce you? How
are you the natural incentive structure
of the world? Because everyone and
everything is the logical culmination of
their circumstances. Our era of history
and especially our elite are easily one
of the strangest ever in human history
or the most removed from the natural
anthropological average of the universal
person. I made a video, one of my
favorites, talking about the most
extreme societies. A few things seem
unbelievable to me about the W style
elites. The first of which is they
belong to a purely artificial culture.
This is another concept I want to talk
about in the future. But most societies
in history develop organically. They are
rooted in a certain geographic area with
a certain ethnicity, religion, and
culture built around a shared history.
Then you have strange artificial
societies that only exist inside
bureaucratized urbanized civilizations
that tend to fold when put under
pressure. They don't follow the rules of
normal societies since they don't have
to fight for survival. Thus, you see
strange developments and growths
completely unrelated to practicality. My
mom would make moonshine in our garage
growing up and so I would see the vats
of beer and sometimes you just drop way
too much yeast into the culture and then
you see the beer turnout in really
strange ways due to this strange overupp
of yeast. And that's how I feel about a
lot of these cultures. America is split
at the hundth parallel between organic
societies that go back to Europe and the
east coast versus the American West
which developed culturally in a wealthy
atheist safe car oriented 20th century.
The European Union is an artificial
culture propped up on the corpse of the
old European organic nations. Same thing
with Dubai, communism or what I call
modern civilization in general.
Washington DC is an island of artificial
culture in the organic east coast. The
World Economic Forum is modernity
personified to a level of parody. They
are so artificial as a culture they
don't even realize how ridiculous they
are. In fact, the World Economic Forum
builds its right to rule off destroying
organic culture. Nze talks about
lifeaffirming versus life denying
religions. When religions first form,
they are these overpowering psychic
forces which completely remake culture
and people's perception of reality in
their image. They transport people to
different mental dimensions and give the
cultures that take said religion greater
strength, intelligence, wisdom, love,
and cooperation. All successful
religions or cultures start like this.
However, over time, every religion goes
from mysticism to bureaucratized decay.
For decadent societies or those in their
decline, the culture is purely negative,
imposing costs on the people involved. A
good culture or religion are like night
vision goggles that enhance your
perception, while bad or lifedy ones
actively blind you. Nze writing around
1880 said that in the early 21st century
due to the wealth and comfort brought
about by the industrial revolution
combined with a degenerated moral code
stemming originally from Christianity
that the west would grow incredibly weak
supporting a completely life-denying
moral code. Nze said that the social
code of the 21st century would be the
most lifedenying ever in history with a
social principles built off tearing
others down to attain equality,
destroying beauty or excellence, thus
creating a culture too weak to produce
healthy human life, excellence,
procreate, or even fight for its own
survival. He called this the age of the
last men. I cannot believe how
unself-aware the World Economic Forum
types are. It's almost as if they're
demonically possessed by completely
nihilistic suicidal ideas which are
driving them mad, shutting off even the
ability to realize what they're doing.
The W openly pushes for degrowth or the
de-industrialization of the Western
world. They openly push for shoving the
population into a new surfom, the
destruction of their own civilization,
and the imitation and glorification of
legitimately totalitarian regimes like
China. I can already hear people writing
this off. And I'm so tired in our
culture that every single appeal to do
something this collapsing society is
replied with complacency and nihilism.
People are about to lose everything they
love and they couldn't care less. People
will say that the World Economic Forum
is just a committee, which is
technically true in the same way as
saying America is just a band of
territory in Central North America.
Moderns really like using a facade of
logic to in reality argue that whatever
[__] they believe is totally true
and you can't question it. It's
rationalization.
The W is incredibly important given it's
a mouthpiece for the managerial class
which completely dominates the modern
world. A short list of the political
leaders who have or are members of the
World Economic Forum include Joe Biden,
the EU commissioner, Zalinski, Trump, as
well as business moguls like Bill Gates
or Mark Zuckerberg. This isn't a
conspiracy theory. It's a completely
obvious elite power interest which
you're an idiot if you ignore. The areas
that tend to be the base for the weft
today are the former Calvinist regions
such as New England, New York, Canada,
Scotland, Eastern England, the
Netherlands, Southern France, Straborg,
Berlin, and others. This makes sense to
me given Calvinism is probably the
harshest branch of Christianity ever in
which they said it wasn't under our
control whether we got into heaven, but
rather a cruel God picked out the
anointed in advance. And so there's no
real free will. Well, they banned
celebrating Christmas on top of having
six-hour church services. This was back
in the 17th century. These areas just
replaced one highly stringent nihilistic
self-loathing religion for another. At
least with Calvinism, you have a highly
functional intact society and get
heaven. The left doesn't even offer
that. The W sets a precedent for the
opinions of the Western ruling class.
That's why the W itself does not have
much power, but very frequently you'll
see ideas the W pushes become applied to
actual policy very quickly. That sense,
the managerial order is a kind of hive
mind of which the W is a mouthpiece. The
leftist managerial order is captured by
a sort of toxic suicidal mob mentality.
The reason I'm talking about the we here
is that they're a sort of measuring
tool. Much like when a river floods, you
can see certain markers for how high the
water got to say, damn, that was a bad
flood. The fact that the West's ruling
class and dominant culture is one which
literally publicly champions degrowth,
slavery, and suicide means something is
very wrong. Things are this bad, and
people don't seem to notice or figure it
out. People are so complacent these
days, anyone who has the slightest
standard or backbone is viciferously
attacked in this culture. This entire
society is trying to turn us into surfs.
As more time passes, I've become more
sympathetic to the old school Marxists.
For those who watch this channel
regularly, my loathing of communism has
become a sort of meme. But the thing
with Mao or Stalin is at least they were
progressive humanists. They believed
humanity could attain incredible things.
They wanted to achieve utopia, build new
stuff, get rich, make technology, and
the like. The thing with the current WE
elite is they just don't want positive
things. They're actively against
technological progress unless it's tech
that lets them enslave the public more
easily. They're actively trying to
shrink the population and economy or
destroy the culture. What the [__]
happened here? How does this make any
sense? Furthermore, how did this happen
in a democratically elected governmental
system? How did voting publiclix choose
to commit their own suicide? Part two.
luxury beliefs. Rob Henderson, who I
apparently have a bunch of mutual
friends with, developed a really useful
idea for the collective discourse, of
which I am very thankful. Henderson grew
up poor in the foster care system, which
gives him a distinct perspective in
modern America's mostly classist
society. I'm convinced a significant
part of wokeness is just forcing the
public to focus on race or sex so the
elites can get away with horrifying
class repression. It's insane the left
started out with technically being the
working class's defenders to loathing
them. It almost feels like a spurned
lover. Modern America has the lowest
social mobility in any time of our
nation's history. You're the most likely
to born and die in the same state of any
era in American history. We have the
highest inequality and most entrenched
class structure of any era in American
history. 60% of kids at the top 20
universities are from families in the
top 1% of income. As a bourgeoa
identifying individual, the class
repression that the left is doing now is
completely horrible. And it's even worse
in that this is a society which pretends
to care about the downtrodd and help
them. Henderson talks a lot about how
almost everything the woke push is
something that imposes costs on normal
people which the elites are able to get
out of due to their higher status. The
easiest example is how wealthy Hollywood
people will talk about how depolicing is
important while they all live in their
own gated communities with security
guards in a parallel society. When Seth
Rogan said that when your car is broken
just buy another is such a horrible
summation which is practically our ages
let them eat cake. Watch my video on the
1960s from my wonderful second podcast,
History 102, where I argue that almost
every single social change that came
about from the 1960s, of which we are
living in the very obvious aftermath is
hurting the social commons. Things like
religion, a shared culture, patriotism,
family values, community, and social
ties are all things that benefit normal
people. This isn't even in a little or a
small unimportant way where, for
example, if you have children inside
wedlock and are religious, the
statistical chances you end up in
poverty are very, very low. I'm sure
we've all seen the stats about the
insane negative effects of
fatherlessness. When you look at stuff
from the old America and wonder why it
appears to be a vastly superior society
in every conceivable way than today,
it's because it was a society that
actually upheld the commons. One of the
best books on society today is The
Revolts of the Elites by Christopher
Lash. It's a book written in the '9s,
but it could have been written today
since it's so precient. His thesis is
that the cultural changes of the post
1960s world were all a move by the
elites to rebel against any sense of
social duty. The reason they push
against nation, religion, culture,
family, and other things is that these
are all social ties that impose costs on
their freedom of action. They are
barriers to their untrabled authority.
Lash goes through every single element
of American life between the death of
patriotism, genuine education about
teaching facts, the death of
neighborhoods, real art, no bless
oblige, and moral values to show how
we've lost any interest in supporting
our fellow man. A take I'm going to
throw in here is from one of my favorite
historians, Carol Quigley, where he
talks about the death of the British
Empire was in many ways an alliance
between the nobility and the labor
unions to shut down British competitive
markets against the rest of the world by
regulating the British economy and
secondarily through killing the empire.
It meant the pre-established British
elites could have control of power while
young men would not go out into the
empire, gain status there, and come back
to Britain to change the social
structure. And this is the case with a
lot of European empires where the social
authorities demilitarize the
populations, getting rid of guns and
getting rid of the empire because if the
population was armed in doing stuff, it
would make them stronger to resist the
regime and it would create social
tension. What our elites do is pick some
abstract group to support which they
have no genuine relation to and then use
that as a way to avoid having to deal
with any group they are in actual
proximity to. This is the origin of the
chart that went viral online that shows
that leftists value nonhuman cellular
life and people who have not yet been
born in their worldview to their
neighbors, friends, and family. The
thing is that no one can enforce your
treatment of non-ellular life. So you
can value it infinitely without actually
having to bear any cost as an
individual. While for the people in your
real life that involves actually doing
stuff which is more difficult.
Everything in the left is making someone
else pay for a cost to make you look
more virtuous. I'm from the rust belt.
And so even as a teenager, I assessed I
had practically no prospects. And I
remember having a panic attack in senior
year when I couldn't sleep past midnight
that if I didn't become an entrepreneur
in the next 5 years, I would be forced
to work a minimum wage job forever
without any social mobility since
corporate America or the universities
would have no interest in me as a Gen Z
white man. And I knew that society was
about to collapse on an intuitive basis.
So I had to figure things out before
then. I could see this was the world
around me. But the thing is that no one
at that time really talked about what
went wrong in our society that screwed
over most Americans. The disjoint
between my lived reality in the
mainstream narrative that even almost
all normies pared was a big reason I
started studying the world and history
and also became a right-winger. As a
teenager, I started calculating every
single way the regime screwed my
demographic of young white men over. The
most obvious answer was
de-industrialization
and globalization.
Since my home city of Philadelphia went
from one of the wealthiest cities in the
world to the poorest and most
crimeridden of America's top 10 largest
cities, America had enormous tariffs
when we industrialized in order to
protect our own manufacturing from more
advanced European countries from the
early 19th century until World War II.
The tariffs America built its own
industry off makes Trump's look like
child play. One of the things Peter Zyan
explains really well is that America
made the current globalist model our
core strategy at the time of the Cold
War after World War II where America
could leverage both its enormous wealth
and superiority in that America was a
majority of the world's economy in 1950
as a way to convince the world to not go
for communism. What happened is that in
the world America made, the vast
majority of Americans became worse off
than before, while a small elite did
vastly better. I was always shocked
globalism was a genuine political
position since I always wondered what
loyalty can a world evoke. There's no
shared culture. There's no shared
history, experiences, or stories. We're
all different people with our own
stories. What does supporting world
peace even mean psychologically? What
does that evoke inside of you? However,
the reason the elite supports
globalization is that by weakening the
culture of individual places, creating a
international global homo, they can
destroy the standards of any given
place. In the West's case, pesky things
like freedom, the individual,
Christianity, or honor that keep them
from taking global power over every
element of the average Westerner's life.
On top of this, they can leverage
different areas core strengths against
that individual area. let's say using
the cheap labor of Southeast Asia,
China's enormous industrial facilities,
Europe's fashion or America's
intellectual power in order to exploit
each area as efficiently as possible
with them as the arbiters of the
relationship taking the best cut. One of
my friends is a term called pinkerism or
the main ruling ideology of our society
that since we have more toilets in
Africa, the complete collapse of
American society is acceptable. In
short, their ruling belief is line go up
equal world goodter. The elite has done
literally everything they could have
possibly done to lower the value of
human labor. This includes
globalization, importing downwards of a
100 million immigrants in the last
lifetime, many of whom illegally,
bringing women into the workforce,
automating, and now AI. On a statistical
basis, the things above which caused the
largest depreciation of labor are
firstly the introduction of women into
the workforce and secondly automation,
which is coming from Peter Turin
statistics. I find it completely morally
reprehensible that these people as
leaders have a moral duty to take care
of their own populations and instead
completely betrayed them. The nation is
a family in which the rulers are by
definition responsible for the shared
culture, genetics, population, and
identity of the people in their country.
When you're talking about immigration
increasing the economy, managing a
society as an economic zone was never
the goal. but instead the living
breathing nation itself which stems back
centuries. The insane thing is that in
the current worldview questioning any of
this is completely taboo while at the
same time these are completely arbitrary
opinions picked by the self-interest of
the ruling class. I never get how elites
will make a strategic calculation based
out of their own self-interest and then
the masses treat it with religious
fervor. Questioning free trade,
immigration or regulatory systems is
seen as bigoted, racist or sexist, which
just makes zero sense. But it's simply
the managerial classes attempt to hold
on to power. The reason we import tens
of millions of Latin American barely
literate people but educated Anglo
struggle to migrate here is that for the
managerial class the first are cheap
labor which push down wages for the
American working class thus making their
lives cheaper and for the latter it's
competition for their educated jobs. The
horrifying classism that came out of the
left after Trump was always just
completely disgusting to me. These are
people who claim to care about the
downtrodden as their number one thing.
But at the same time, they say that
anyone who votes for Trump is an
illiterate peasant whose opinion
shouldn't be counted. They openly say
that we need a cheap labor supply from
elsewhere, which keeps wages down for
normal Americans. The left keeps the
price of housing high, which you can see
in red states having significantly
cheaper housing, which is easier to
build, which young and lowerass
Americans spend over 60% of their income
on. I remember the most influential
leftist streamer until recently,
Destiny, posting a meme about saying
that people on a flight are asking to be
the pilot as a metaphor for the lower
classes asking for governance from the
educated. I was shocked since this is
such naked elitism and aristocracy. This
is the exact kind of thing the nobility
would have said 500 years ago and the
left has zero self-awareness about it. I
remember a leftist woman complaining she
couldn't date anyone without a degree
since they were inferior. I replied, "So
the nobility and lowborns can't mix,
right? One of my good friends is an
American expat who lives in Mexico and
he likes to say that our elite is trying
to Mexicanize America. What that means
not simply on a demographic basis is
that Mexico is an innately aristocratic
society stemming from the Spanish
conquest which divided the country up
between about a dozen ruling families
who controlled most of the economy.
Mexico is the best country to be an
elite and which the courts are biased
for you. You have infinite servants from
the enormous poor population. Only the
elites get to live a first world life
while the entire society caters to them.
The elite is trying to turn us into
Mexico. Firstly by importing Mexicans,
then on a cultural, political, and
social basis. They're trying to turn us
into surfs. You will own nothing and be
happy. As they've literally said, my
best friend's from a working-class
family in Boston. He and a lot of his
network are from old stock Mayflower
Yankees. And when I visited his hometown
several times, it's so dystopian how his
set or local workingclass people have
been completely screwed over by the
leftist elite. Workingclass people in
blue states have zero social mobility.
And whenever I go to Boston, every
single job I see is either automated or
done by an immigrant, frequently one who
can't even speak English. Let I remind
you this is about as far from Latin
America as you can get while still being
in America. I keep finding this in blue
states where the managerial class see
the previous American inhabitants the
way we saw the Native Americans. The
Yankees have been completely betrayed by
their own elite. The rapid social
collapse has been horrifying to watch.
I'm only 23, so I remember the old
America a little bit, partially since I
grew up in a rural area a few decades
behind the rest of America culturally. I
remember the old America which was a
middle-class country in which social
mobility was expected built around the
cultural needs of the American people. A
place where freedom and basic decency
was taken for granted with open
discussion. A place where it was just
assumed everyone could get married and
have children, even poor people. Poor
people used to be able to buy houses,
where middle-class people took
vacations, where the weekends were
normalized, people loved Hollywood, and
kids would just play outside without
even thinking. In our current society,
we simultaneously are completely
incapable of acknowledging that that old
country ever ended. And at the same
time, people will deny that it ever
existed. I remember that country with my
own mind, and I find it so
heartbreaking. So many pretended it
never happened. Whenever I talk about
this, people say things were always this
way or that things were just as good
now, which is really a disgusting
Schroinger society. By every conceivable
metric you could possibly choose, the
average American's quality of life has
collapsed precipitously. This is borne
out in a bunch of different statistics.
As Peter Turchin covers eloquently, Gen
Z has 90% less spending power per capita
as the baby boomers did in their 20s.
Gen Z is too poor to create culture or
even go out to drink. Young people are
too poor to mate or form families. This
is why we have the worst birth rates in
history. Wages have completely stagnated
as cost of life has skyrocketed. The
average young or poor American has 3/4
of their income taken from them for just
existing in that they spend 60% of their
income on rent while the state takes a
big chunk in social security and taxes,
let alone food or essentials. This is
why most Americans have less than $500
in the bank. This doesn't even deal with
intangible factors which we completely
devalue in our culture. The reason other
societies procreated in poverty and
formed stable cultures while we do not
is that they had social institutions we
got rid of. With religion, community,
family trust, and values, you can live
in poverty while knowing that people
will help you out through financial
issues, babysit your children, hang out
with you after work, and you'll have a
meaning or moral code to explain how the
world works. The reason mental health is
so disastrous among Gen Z, around 40%
having a diagnosed mental illness is
that they're completely consumed by
nihilism. There's a very important
historic event called the disenchantment
of the world that anthropologists talk
about through which we move from a
concept of the world in which the entire
universe is alive and full of meaning
and spirits and beauty and that meaning
is inside existence itself. And I've put
a lot of effort into studying the
disenchantment. And it's a complex topic
in itself, but one of the points I find
very interesting is that when you look
at the trajectory, you'll find that it's
correlated with wealthy industrial
societies where when you're not a
wealthy industrialized society, you'll
have an enchanted mystical view of the
world. And I'll push this back to
science a little bit earlier. And
afterwards, you don't. And in each case,
it's not really a rational argument,
which I explained in this text. Wall,
it's more so that just it's considered
not scientific to believe in these
things. Well, it's not explained while
science has to be our entire moral code.
And what I think actually happened here
is that belief in things like religion
or mysticism or magic was seen as
lowclass behavior that upper class
scientific people should not do because
they're too rational and successful
through modern methods to need those
sorts of silly things. And that's what's
borne out in the statistical evidence
from demographics. The reason that
within the last lifetime we lost all of
those social institutions I spoke about
earlier is that the boomers got rid of
the culture in society since they didn't
need it since their age group was so
wealthy. What they did was put their
children in a terrible place where their
society makes no sense since they have
none of the wealth necessary to uphold
the lack of social institutions. People
tend to see decadence or the phase of
social collapse we're facing now with a
declining society as a symptom of insane
wealth or degeneracy. That's true
initially, but as the society
degenerates, most people fall into
poverty while they lose the social
institutions that would maintain the
degeneracy itself. Decadence always ends
in the oldworld peasant beaten down by
millennia of the tyranny of culture,
state, and family. We see the huddled
peasants of Egypt or India as primitive
while in reality they are the end point
of civilization going longer than ours
has now. We westerners are still
somewhat savage since we were cowboys or
Vikings not too long ago. Our freedom
and vitality are barbarian remnants. We
can't afford to lose them. Part three.
GSR. When our society lies, it does so
by stating a slanted halftruth while
completely ignoring the opposite point
which is even more true. Yes, toxic
masculinity is a real thing. And we are
the least toxically masculine society
ever. Toxic masculinity is Genghask Khan
and Hitler. The thing is that our
society is completely destroyed by toxic
femininity, something that we can never
discuss publicly. It's insane how great
the scope of toxic femininity is. and
how practically nothing is written on
the topic. I recently read a super good
book by Joyce Bennison called Warriors
and Warriors that covers this. I'm kind
of impressed this middle-aged, I would
guess, leftist female academic wrote
such a cutting book on toxic femininity.
I think it's a real bellweather for the
culture where we all know that this is
real and it's horrible and I think
people are just frankly getting tired of
it. Remember when people said women were
innately more moral than men around a
decade ago? In the time since, that
opinion has just become seen as
completely insane now. I would argue
mostly due to the downstream effects of
the internet. Female relational warfare
or it's also called gsr. That being
gossiping, shaming, and rallying is how
women manifest aggression rather than
war like men do. GSR is the use of
social tools to lower others reputations
and secure your own higher status. It's
also called drama, which for thousands
of years was widely considered to be
women's worst trait across cultures.
However bad you imagine gsr to be, just
triple it. And this is borne out in all
the evidence or statistics. As an
example, there's the famous study that
hairdressers will purposely cut the hair
of women more attractive than them. a
few inches shorter, but will not do so
for women who are less attractive than
them. My friend Homath has a brilliant
video called Who's a 10? Which does an
analysis of this through the lens of why
it's such a common phenomena that women
will say all women are 10 out of 10's
attractiveness, which they obviously
can't believe if you watch their
actions. The reason for this is that the
idea that all women are beautiful and in
fact equally so is a convenient
strategic argument for women of
different levels of attractiveness. What
we keep finding with the studies is that
female social networks are completely
dependent on agreeing to an external
mask of equality when in reality that's
just a cover for low trust competitive
strategies. Women are terrified of
appearing like they're trying to do
better than other women. Women try to
avoid the appearance of competition with
other women while in fact they are. This
is partly due to the removal of physical
violence which creates a lack of an
incentive to beat people into good
actions. While until recently, female
social status was dictated purely by
beauty rather than capability like it
tends to be for men. One of the things I
learned from both talking to women as
well as Joyce Bennison's book is that in
female social structure, they're scared
of being successful because in that
case, their friends might no longer like
them because their friends might envy
them. And that's just so brutal because
what's the point of having friends if
they don't support you in attaining
excellence in doing cool stuff? They're
not your real friends. And when this
channel took out and I dropped out of
college and became much more successful
than my peers, it was so dispiriting
that so many of them were not happy that
I was successful because I was thinking,
wait, did you ever actually like me? And
that's how I feel about a lot of this
stuff where I just find it completely
unacceptable that women don't support
other women in female social settings.
It's frequent that obvious things aren't
discussed since they create awkwardness
for people trying to perpetuate lowrust
strategies. As you can see, this all
applies to modernity, which is very
heavily feminized with in this instance
why modernity doesn't explain
anthropology, biology, history, or how
the world works. honestly since in doing
so it would show how low trust the left
is. This also involves the need of a
mask for equality, fear of appearing
competitive or aggressive in today's
culture while people are still jockeying
for status behind it. All of this is at
odds with male norms which tend to deal
with aggression or status conflicts
directly while not feeling a need for
equality. This is why in historic
societies which were more masculine,
they had titles of nobility, epic
mythologies, or waged war for the fun of
it. It's completely reasonable and
rational to think that as women got more
power over the course of the industrial
age that the society itself would take
on the traits of toxic femininity as the
society is the end point of the people
involved. The thing with gsr is when you
see it, you can't unsee it. The nature
of toxic femininity is all mate
suppression. The underlying nature of
toxic femininity is to abdicate
responsibility as much as possible while
also lessening risk as much as possible.
This is why historically, going back to
the Greeks or Romans, the correlation
between feminism and the welfare state
is so strong. Women then use
interpersonal relationships and
communication in order to achieve said
aims. The insidious thing is that women
evolved to be incredibly good at this
since these were traits that were
rewarded in humanity's evolutionary
environment. Due to the emphasis on the
abdication of responsibility, the onus
for female communication is to imply as
many things as possible while operating
under a field of plausible deniability.
This is why flirting is the way it is,
existing within a range of plausible
deniability and timing in which as you
flirt, you have the potential to pull
back at any time due to the realization
that said relationship is not
worthwhile. When you look at female
communication, this explains a truly
vast amount of it. When you wonder why a
woman does something you don't
understand, try to figure out how it
either balances her own emotional state
or how it allows her to abdicate
responsibility. For toxic masculinity,
you can see it from very overt signs,
that being burnt out cities and corpses
littering the streets. But for toxic
femininity, for this reason, it's nigh
impossible to spot unless you're
actively looking for it. Frequently,
you'll only find it in retrospect after
it's already happened. Women have
literally evolved to do this and have
social camouflage like a chameleon,
which allows them to metaphorically hunt
more easily. I'm always in shock women
don't take courses or read books or any
of that stuff to learn these highly
complex social games. They just do it
intuitively. However, the effects of
toxic femininity are beyond obvious once
you spot them. They can frequently
completely destroy a society. Toxic
femininity results in a low social trust
culture. It causes environments of
mutual suspicion in which everyone hides
who they truly are, where nothing gets
accomplished, or where normal human
relationships, including procreating,
have become impossible. Not treating
toxic femininity as real while
acknowledging toxic masculinity is in
effect avoiding a specific type of crime
or a crime against the shared society.
Most of toxic femininity boils down to
greed from an individual woman where
women evolved due to the enormous costs
of child rearing alongside their
physical weakness at the expense of the
collective culture. The worst side of
female nature is immaturity whether
pettiness, greed, envy or weakness. To
look at some examples of this from
politics, the left has used gsr on an
industrial transcontinental scale. The
reason leftism works so well is that
Marxism and its descendants create a
pretty sounding ideology which in effect
due to their complete abdication of
responsibility means that the left can
rationalize literally everything for
their aims. As I have said before in
these two videos, leftism is toxic
femininity as an evolutionary strategy
containing all the trademarks whether
the removal of competition, risk,
envious redistribution of resources,
removal of freedom and criticism. GSR
becoming the entire society and putting
pleasant fictions above reality. The
thing is that literally everything in
leftism is some form of mate suppression
since women have none of the incentives
of group cooperation that men evolved to
have. Keep in mind men went through
twice the evolutionary pressures that
women did caused by war and the womb
being so expensive versus sperm. That
means that twice as many women
reproduced as men did. Men are bound
together as a group since they needed to
fight for war, which killed 20 to 40% of
men every generation in prehistoric
societies consistently. Meanwhile,
women's only evolutionary pressure was
their own children. Thus, women have a
cognitive bias towards greed in order to
provide for their own offspring. This is
why female social groups are so often
toxic. And I do not envy women's social
position. Female relations are based off
vulnerability in that women, especially
during child rearing, are profoundly
vulnerable. This is why women value
sharing their emotions and attention
seeking socially since they're testing
to see if you're trustworthy with their
weakness. However, since there's no
loyalty or honor inside female social
groups, what happens is that female
social groups are constantly filled with
drama in which social relationships
break apart over silly things. Throw on
top of this, we've consistently found
from studies that women actually benefit
from causing drama evolutionarily. It's
common sense that the society needs to
be built around stopping violence, but
it doesn't go to reason in the same way
that it would be true for toxic
femininity. The reason for this is that
the mechanism which stopped toxic
femininity was called society and social
norms. Women did not engage in these
behaviors anywhere near the same degree
500 years ago since women existed in
intensive social webs under the
responsibility of their fathers or
husbands. If a woman spread lies or is a
complete slit, she'd be ostracized by
the village community which had a shared
moral code enforced by religion and
disciplined by her guardian. In preodern
England, and this was true across most
societies, it was literally illegal for
women to slander and cause drama since
it was called disturbing the king's
peace. Throw on top of this laws against
witchcraft, which can be pretty directly
interpreted as principles against toxic
femininity. What a combination of the
breakdown of traditional society caused
by urbanization and modernization with
the internet recently is that it broke
down all barriers against low trust
female behavior. In fact, we made it our
religion. The worst element of female
behavior were trying to suppress the
fertility of other women became our
entire culture. If you guys ever feel
bad, keep in mind that the people women
hate the most are other women, not men.
As a comedian once said, "Men want to
understand women while women do
understand women and they hate each
other." A point which I think is
important but goes unsaid is that the
real targets for mate suppression are
women, not men. Because if you look at
the subconscious of the people pushing
this, they don't really think about how
these men relate to society outside of a
sexual status context. What that means
is that they're not thinking of these
men as individuals. They're thinking of
them as people who get paired up with
women. So, this is low status women
trying to remove the reward for luckier
women who get with higher status men
because they envy them. This isn't a man
versus woman issue because fundamentally
women suffer as much from mate
suppression as men do. It's you are
enabling the worst demographic of women
possible so that pro-social women face
the harshest consequences. To jump back
on a larger scale for a few examples of
mate suppression in politics, the first
is child car seats. In America, we've
had a law for a while that children have
to ride in very specific elevated car
seats for their own safety. These seats
are expensive and difficult to maintain.
While furthermore, only specific types
of cars, which happen to be more
expensive, have the space to fit them.
The effects of this have been saving
something like less than 10 lives since
1980 and preventing 150,000 births by
people who can't afford the seats or
cars. This is a very obvious example of
mate suppression. As another example,
when I was growing up, helicopter
parenting was an obsession. My parents
were seen as strange for letting me have
agency as a child, not monitoring every
single moment of my life. I knew parents
which walked their kids four blocks to
school every single day until the end of
high school, picking them up at the end
of class, too, or controlled what their
children spent money on until the end of
high school. The thing that shocks me is
that people didn't predict this would
have the psychological effects it would
on my generation, which it so obviously
did of turning us into neurotic wrecks
incapable of functioning as adults. At
the same time, these very same parents
didn't grow up like this themselves with
this trend coming in around 2000. So,
they themselves know it's unnecessary.
Helicopter parenting, I nearly said
helicopter carining, is very clearly an
upper or middle class trend since they
are the people with the resources to get
stuck on this kind of [__] [__]
Helicopter parenting was enforced by the
society. Though, many parents literally
had the police called on them for
letting their children play outside
without supervision. There's just so
many crazy news stories about this
through the prism of mate suppression.
This is very clearly the upper and
middle classes using female hysteria
over children as a way to enforce upon
the working classes a tax of time and
effort that they can scarcely afford.
You could also talk about a bunch of
other stuff like this when I was growing
up of parents obsessing over driving
their kids to events, doing special
programs for them, special diets or
whatever. I hate how many parents
sacrifice all of their hobbies and adult
friends or their lives to supervise
children who in turn become resentful
and dysfunctional from it. If you
compare the adults who came out of
helicopter parenting to those who lived
a century ago, it's clear that this is
not a good system to produce adults.
None of our ancestors had this and they
turned out fine. This is all mate
suppression much like economics in which
big companies push for regulations as a
way of hurting smaller companies. Is it
any surprise that major companies rose
from 20% of the economy in 1960 to 80%
today as they used the regulatory
framework to weaken small businesses. In
the process, we've seen a collapse of
small businesses and middle class
America. It's funny. We went through all
the different ways
very different parts of life are
indirectly connected to mate
suppression, but I forgot about the
actual mate suppression. That being how
young women just openly tell each other
to not have children where the culture
now is incredibly anti-natal where I
know lots of young women who saw it as
sort of moral duty to not have children
in that they and everyone else in their
friend groups all have a consensus they
will not have children. And this is a
very big thing for a much larger group
of people than I think a lot of people
would realize. I think it's a large
minority of Gen Z women who are like
this where they've just lost any
interest in starting families and they
further each other in this and that when
you look at the music or the movies or
the culture or schools or political
propaganda, it's all overtly antiatalist
with a quarter of Gen Z thinking it's
morally wrong to bring children into
this world. There's a pretty horrifying
statistic now that 60% of Gen Z women
just do not want to have children and a
larger number are unsure if they want
to. For example, at the start of the
Barbie movie, which was the biggest
cultural event of the last year, I think
they show
a child breaking dolls and breaking her
connection to matrimony
um and child birth. And then they play
the thus spake zerahustra music from
2001 of space odyssey. So they treat the
destruction of motherhood and they do
believe that if you look at the
subconscious of their worldview as a
historic level breakthrough and they
tend to view women who do have children
with contempt and they view children
with contempt. It's so jarring to go to
Mexico, a country in which I've lived
for certain periods of my life, to see a
society where none of this is the case.
You see corner stores and small
businesses everywhere in Mexico since
their regulatory framework isn't as
insane as ours. Kids play outside in
Mexico. Even basic essentials not
related to labor cost are cheaper there.
The Mexicans are too poor to afford our
luxury reliefs and mate suppression.
Need I remind you Mexico is a vastly
more dangerous country than America. The
entirety of socialism is mate
suppression in that creativity and
economic growth is achieved by creative
individuals trying to make money or
status out of their own free will to
power. Creativity is never generated by
bureaucracies. What socialism almost
always is is redirecting money from
middle-aged and old white men who
comprise nearly all of America's tax
base to mostly single moms. frequently
of ethnic minorities who comprise most
of the recipients of welfare. This is
just using the state as another form of
mate suppression as a manifestation of
toxic femininity. I find it kind of
ironically and darkly hilarious how much
of feminism boils down to women using
the state and society as a way to make
men less competitive versus women, which
is just the entire culture. However,
women are attracted to men who are more
successful than them. And this is one of
the reasons why it gets very messy when
you try to integrate the sexes together
as competitors. Where these women
complain that none of the men around
them are attractive because they're more
successful than them. Well, they have
zero self-awareness. This is the outcome
of the society which they chose. As
always, mate suppression ends up hurting
everyone involved. As we can see with
the rise of socialism killing Europe's
multi-entury dominance in every field
possible over the course of the 20th
century which happened at the exact same
time as the rise of socialism. You saw
Europe lose its empires and lose all of
its technological and cultural
advantages. The introduction of
communism killed Russia's rise to
dominance which was occurring under the
Zars while the left is trying to
throttle America today. Read this text
wall for more info. Part four, the walls
are alive. As I went further and deeper
into this topic, I started to break my
sense of what my old reality was. In our
society, we tend to see our own social
structure uncritically. When we deal
with stuff like codes of politeness or
what's socially acceptable in our
society, we tend to just treat breaking
convention as innately wrong without
thinking why or how these social norms
came from or who they serve. There is a
distinction between the nerd who does
not understand social cues and the alpha
who doesn't care. I like using the
phrase the walls are alive, which is a
phrase I invented. That signifies to me
that something in the baseline of my
life which I took for granted is
actually an active insidious force which
is trying to hurt me. I've realized this
about half a dozen times in my life with
one of the bigger examples was the
realization that the entire society was
a conspiracy to destroy me as a Gen Z
white man which acknowledging a decade
ago or even 5 years ago was taboo but it
was still true at the time. How many
things are like that now which will be
terrible things that will be obvious a
decade from now but which are taboo to
say today. Let me give some examples.
It's treated as a truism that
Christianity is an anti-ex religion,
which is also how traditional cultures
in general are seen. In reality,
religious people have more sex than the
less religious. But on top of that, the
attitude of the religions predominantly
obsessing over sex is a modern thing.
The Bible is a complex document of over
a thousand pages, and the
interpretations from it are even more
complex. In the rise of modernity,
Christians have had to compromise on a
lot of tenets of their religion. For a
lot of stuff in the Old Testament, it's
generally understood that this is
acceptable and that we don't want to
stone people to death for breaking
crimes or maintain complex dietary
restrictions. However, Christians are
very stuck on sexual morality today
while completely rejecting their social
codes in other ways. I think sexual
morality is important and necessary to a
functioning society, but it feels weird
that Christians are willing to hold the
sex equals bad line while surrendering
on so many others. For example, feminism
is completely against the Bible. Women
are supposed to be submissive and not
speak in church according to the New
Testament. War and genocide is
completely acceptable according to the
Bible. The Bible and Christ treat
hierarchy as normal and even good. To be
frank, Christians have surrendered so
much of their culture. I'm always
curious where they choose to draw their
lines. The entire nature of Christianity
itself is based on love, humility, and
free will, which is how the preodern
church interpreted it, with pride being
the worst sin. Interestingly enough, in
a lot of ways, medieval Europe was a
more sexually loose culture than we are
today. People in the pre-industrial
world would have sex in front of their
friends and family. Masturbation wasn't
treated as a real sin in that
Catholicism had lots of low-level sins
until the 17th century. During the 17th
century, nannies would give their boys
they were working for hand jobs, which
we have records of them doing in front
of the French court to a young Louis the
14th. When I first heard that fact, it
shocked me. So, I checked it and
apparently it's true. And the way it
makes sense is that in the preodern
world, they did not separate sex from
hierarchy. So there was an understanding
that if you were a nobleman that if you
had sex with your female servants, that
was kind of how things worked out
because you had authority over them.
Then that transferred over to the young
son. And so that's how you ended up in a
culture where nannies would give boys
hand jobs. And the thing with the
preodern world is they often were
significantly more sexually loose than
we think. But because they had a
fundamentally Christian moral code, they
didn't record this stuff as their
external facing image. And that's the
sort of thing that gets recorded is
highly important in history. This is
generally true for preodern societies
where they didn't record this stuff as a
public-f facing historic record. But
preodern societies had much better
understandings of private versus public.
And so they did lots of weird stuff in
private that just didn't get recorded.
The nobility would keep concubines as a
normal thing while courtly love was all
about glorifying adultery. There's a
great book on this topic called the
evolution of manners by Norbert Elias
which talks about manners from the
middle ages until the present. In the
medieval and early modern periods,
societies, let I remind you, that are
vastly more Christian than we are today.
Knights would write poetry about how
much they loved the act of killing.
Drinking on the job was completely
normal. England's the most peaceful
country in Europe, had a murder rate
comparable to South Africa, the
bloodiest country in the world today.
Entire towns would have nude baths
together, including postpubescent women.
Nudity and art was normalized. Animal
carcasses were carved up at the dinner
table in front of guests. People ate
with their hands and would use chamber
pots in front of others. This was a
savage civilized society. My audience's
core demographic and the one I try to
represent is young men. And what I tell
Christians is that if they can loosen up
on stuff like masturbating being a sin,
which is mentioned literally nowhere in
the Bible, you could probably get young
men to take up five times as many
Christian virtues to balance it out. At
the same time, if Christianity was
willing to take up masculine virtues
like interest in war, heroism, and
honor, it would attract young men. This
is all things that Christian societies
in the past did. The reason that
Christianity isn't like this anymore is
something that Charles Taylor, one of
the most preeminent Christian
historians, talks about in his book on
the secularization of Western
civilization, a secular age. In the
early modern period, atheism was seen as
masculine or holding out against the
chaos of the world alone, rationally.
This meant that starting around the time
of the 18th century, Christianity became
highly feminized, which became even more
pronounced around the time of the
industrial revolution. People like to
say that men are driven vastly more so
by sex than women, but I don't think
that's fundamentally true. From various
studies and metrics, we find that men
have about seven times the sex drive
women do, while at the same time, men
also do a lot of other things that women
don't. Just look at the stories each sex
writes. Men write stories about war,
adventure, business, machines, science,
history, magic, and other things
completely unrelated to the quotidian or
daily life. While almost all female
stories circle around finding a mate,
the ancient Greeks, Romans, and medieval
thought women were innately more lustful
than men. And I think a case can be made
for that. The thing is that once an
organization gets feminized, it will
devolve into trying to increase the
value of the wombs of the women
involved, which need I remind you is
frequently life or death for women. A
pretty girl gets to be in the warlord's
herum while an ugly one remains a
peasant who starves or is enslaved.
Thus, when the church became feminized,
it became obsessed with sex. Especially
so, male sexuality in which we can see
that Christians today have been
completely incapable of policing female
sexual behavior or toxic femininity,
even as America was a 90% Christian
country a generation ago. The real
reason masturbation was such a strong
taboo from the 18th through 21st
centuries, even more so than sex, which
is pretty insane when you think about
it, given the massive different in cost
between them, is that a feminized church
needed to make masturbating taboo in
order to increase women's sexual value.
At the same time, this is why Christians
got so obsessed with really petty stuff
like people being too edgy for church
while ignoring the communist takeover of
their entire civilization. I don't get
why Christians don't fight back harder.
You guys don't get it. It's your moral
duty to fight to the death to defend
your property and honor. The reason sex
is so taboo to discuss in polite company
today in a way it wasn't 400 years ago
is that if people were honest about sex,
we would realize how much of our society
is using sex for lowrust mate
suppression. If we were honest, we'd
realize women are only attracted to men
who dominate them. However, that would
destroy feminism. We'd realize the vast
majority of young people lose in this
equation for the benefit of a few with
hypergamy. Alternately, men would
realize that obsessing over sex just
isn't worthwhile. It's funny that I
agree with a lot of the normie
Christians about sex, but not for the
reason that they do. I just don't think
it's worthwhile for a lot of young men.
They invest all their time and effort,
practically their whole lives if you
include the status which feeds into sex,
for men to probably get a woman who
doesn't even like them that much.
There's an over 40% shot she divorces
him. The majority of marriages are
unhappy. While very few young guys even
get married these days or get a
girlfriend, the return on investment is
not equivalent to the effort. And in
this strange society which is obsessed
with sex while also being squeamish and
terrified, you can't sit young men down
as an adult and tell them, "Well, it
might save them their lives." All this
stuff. To clarify my position here,
because it's somewhat complex, I don't
fault major world religions for having
strict sexual controls because if you
look at the course of human history and
human nature, it's consistently been an
effective strategy for the societies
involved because it creates incentives
for social cooperation and against
degeneracy.
I personally am not a fan of highly
dogmatic religions. Although I think
religion is necessary for healthy human
societies because it destroys creativity
and promotes irrationality or I'd prefer
to have a social code based upon
personal honor and responsibility
inculcated in the individual. However, I
think that's quite difficult to attain
and not feasible for most people in
history, which is why having a dogmatic
religion makes sense. What I am against
is using a sort of controlled hysteria
to stop the public from talking about
sexual realities in a serious way. What
we've basically done here is create a
very controlled sort of politeness where
we can't talk about the reality of the
human condition because it's impolite
and this is destroying our civilization.
Furthermore, the use of sexual shame in
order to control men so that they can't
actually follow their own self-interest
and understand what's going on where our
society defaults onto sexual shaming
immediately. if you bring up any
uncomfortable questions, which is just
so stupid and it's so immature. We
shouldn't have to put up with this
garbage. It's just dumb. We have too
much investment in mate suppression in
order to be honest. And men have been
tricked while they feel too much shame
to admit it. This use of social norms
for mate suppression is more of the
society than you'd think. Our society's
main religious belief is ignoring human
biology. I mean the term religion here
is how we perceive the world and our
entire concept of reality. This is true
on multiple levels in which we can't
acknowledge racial differences as well
as class or sex. Trans is the ultimate
culmination of this which is a complete
denial of biology on a level that's just
incredibly insane. This is since our
society is built off the idea that we
can use social engineering to change
reality which is false. The truth is
that reality is that half of nearly
every trait is genetically coded and not
all people are equally smart,
hardworking, kind, or wise. In fact, as
we've studied more, the gaps are truly
vast between the outliers and the
average. You can look to a society's
swear words to figure out what it holds
sacred. In the Middle Ages, the swear
words were tabernacle, God's bones, or
Christ's nails since that was such an
authentically Christian society, unlike
ours, which pretends to believe in God
well as being purely materialist.
However, in our culture, our swear words
are [__] [__] [__] and [__] which
are all innately biological. We are a
culture which due to the myth of
progress cannot acknowledge that we are
all human. Realizing that we're animals
would make this entire society fall
apart. This is since we are a society in
which the human animal suffers which you
can see from the cripplingly bad mental
health at the expense of the human ego
which is fed by the delusions of
modernity. If we admit that humans are
stupid animals who want to procreate,
that will shatter all the myths of this
society and radically alter every
element of the culture. We would start
to prioritize our values, families,
communities, and societies. Since as
animals, we would realize that other
animals would prioritize those things in
order to be happy. An otter can have
lots of toys and food, but if it's stuck
in a zoo without space to play, a river
or a mate, you can understand why said
otter is unhappy. Our society has turned
us into zoo animals. And much like how
zoo animals don't procreate, neither do
we. One of the most chilling books I've
ever read was by a pimeatlogist
comparing urban human behavior to zoo
animals. The thing though is that when
you add all of this up, we've sacrificed
everything to mate suppression for
nothing in return. Mate suppression has
become our religion, social code,
politics, child rearing, and discourse.
Literally everything has become mate
suppression. The very walls of the
building we live in are mate
suppression. In writing this video, it
felt like it was too long, but after
covering how so many things are innately
mate suppression, I feel justified. We
have to cut this out in order to
survive. But that involves facing our
shadow. Something people will often die
before doing. That being toxic
femininity. Thanks for the idea, Jim.
You can really see how it's affected me.
Peace.